- [MJCompiler](#mjcompiler)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Main components](#main-components)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Build Process](#build-process)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Running compiled programs](#running-compiled-programs)
  - [Language Features](#language-features)

# MJCompiler

A compiler for the MicroJava programming language, developed as part of the Compiler Construction course.

The compiler translates MicroJava source programs into bytecode that executes on the MicroJava Virtual Machine.

The project implements the complete compilation pipeline:
* lexical analysis
* syntax analysis
* semantic analysis
* bytecode generation

## Overview

MicroJava is a simplified Java-like programming language designed for teaching compiler construction. The compiler processes a `.mj` source file and produces a `.obj` bytecode file that can be executed on the MicroJava Virtual Machine.

## Main components
**Lexer**

- Generated from `src/spec/mjlexer.flex` spec
- Implemented using JFlex
- Responsible for tokenizing the source program

**Parser**

- Generated from `src/spec/mjparser.cup` spec
- Uses Java CUP (LALR parser generator)
- Builds the Abstract Syntax Tree (AST)

**Semantic analyzer**

- Traverses the AST
- Performs type checking
- Maintains the symbol table
- Reports semantic errors

**Code generator**

- Generates MicroJava bytecode
-Produces .obj executable files
 
Test samples are provided in the `test/` directory. Standard input is set to `test/input.txt` file due to Eclipse buggy behavior :P

## Prerequisites

To build and run the compiler you need JDK 8+ precompiled jar libraries that can be found in the Packages section.

## Build Process

Place the required libraries in the `lib/` folder. Navigate to the project root and generate the compiler components.

1. Generate the lexer
```bash
java -cp lib/JFlex.jar JFlex.Main -d src spec/mjlexer.flex
```
2. Generate the parser
```bash
java -cp lib/cup_v10k.jar java_cup.Main \
  -destdir src \
  -parser MJParser \
  -ast rs.ac.bg.etf.pp1.ast \
  -buildtree spec/mjparser.cup
```
3. Compile the compiler
```bash
javac -cp lib/* src/**/*.java
```

Alternatively, ant tool can be used to compile it with target `compile` in `build.xml`.

## Usage

Compile a MicroJava program:
```bash
java -cp lib/*;. rs.ac.bg.etf.pp1.Compiler program.mj
```

## Running compiled programs

To execute the generated bytecode using the MicroJava runtime:
```bash
java -cp lib/mj-runtime-1.1.jar rs.etf.pp1.mj.runtime.Run program.obj
```
You can also run in debug mode:
```bash
java -cp lib/mj-runtime-1.1.jar rs.etf.pp1.mj.runtime.Run -debug program.obj
```
## Language Features

The compiler supports the following language constructs:
* variables, arrays, enums
* arithmetic, logic and relational expressions
* control flow (if, for, switch)
* functions
* classes and inheritance
* virtual method calls
* polymorphism
